>> Be here in this moment, just
sitting, choicelessly present,
aware without attending
to any sensory object.
Yet, allowing energy to flow
freely through the senses.
Allowing the aliveness of
this moment to be as it is.
Simply abide with what is.
Remaining present,
intimately connected
with what is happening, without
thinking, without mediation
by the mind.
There are two
fundamental patterns
that lock us into identification
with the limited mind.
Our body wants to feel good.
We crave the experience of
what is pleasant, or what
is predictable, what is known.
And our mind wants
to know, it wants
to feel that it is in control.
When the mind believes
that it knows,
it feels that it is in control.
The body wants to feel good.
The mind wants to know.
These are the two
unconscious processes
that we make conscious.
We sit with no preference,
no preference toward what
the body experiences.
And we sit OK with not knowing.
We let go of any idea that
one sensation is positive
and another negative.
There is just sensation,
just aliveness,
an endless field of
changing phenomena.
Let go of discrimination
between this and that.
Let go of perception of things.
When there are no preferences,
no perception of things,
there are no reactions, no
pushing away, and no clinging.
You stop feeding
the egoic patterns.
You stop being
interested or fixated
with particular sensations
or particular thoughts.
We come to this place
of choiceless awareness
not by doing and not by
attempting to stop doing.
We come to this place by
recognizing the truth,
by recognizing who
or what is constantly
doing, who or what
has been in control.
Don't assume that you know
what these words mean.
Don't assume that you know what
it means for the mind and body
to drop off.
Investigate with
a beginner's mind.
Let go of any idea that
you have to disappear,
or that there's some void,
or that there is no self.
If you hold these concepts,
they can be obstacles.
Some teachers say you
have to become no one.
But don't let this
become a concept.
Non-dual union is beyond all
notions of self and no self.
All of these concepts
are barriers.
Minds dropping off doesn't
mean there's no mind.
It is neither mind nor no mind.
It is neither self nor no self.
You could say mind
becomes unlimited
so it is no longer your mind,
no longer personal mind.
It is the filter or
limitation that drops off.
Surrender your will, your
wanting to the spiritual heart.
Don't get snagged by
the material world,
the world of changing forms.
And don't dwell in
inner emptiness.
The truth is beyond this
duality of form and emptiness.
Realize form as exactly
emptiness, emptiness
as exactly form.
Then all duality
vanishes by itself.
Just sit, being OK with what
is, being OK with not knowing.
Not knowing is a gateway
to all realization.
Let go of time and space and
remain awake in the eternal
now.
When you remain continuously
awake, dreams vanish.
Don't deny the reality of the
world or you will miss it.
Don't believe in the reality of
the world or you will suffer.
Denying or affirming, you
remain trapped on the level
of the limited mind.
The limited mind is a
distortion of the truth.
Realize what is beyond concepts.
Experience this moment raw
and unprocessed by the mind.
If you realize this
one truth, the truth
of being in this moment
without the filter
of the conditioned
mind, then it is
like a sword that cuts through
all delusion in a single blow.
[BELL SOUND]